# First Blog and Life Update

I had zero experience making websites before I made this one. Now, I'd say I'm still closer to zero than one. This blog runs on a script that converts Markdown to HTML. I've written far more .md files than .html, and I thought why not actually give this a go. I hate it when the only thing stopping me from making something is the lack of familiarity. Therefore I try very hard to make something regardless. Often this results in me doing something really, really inefficiently. But at least it results in me doing something. And I get a silly little result (output?) to show for it. It gives me the peace of mind to move on to the next thing that excites me. It's the same reason why I have decided to not proofread this blog post. It's 100% the only reason.

This website is a result of something similar. I never got around to actually learning web dev. I can write HTML, I think I know what CSS is for, and I know JavaScript is useful. That's about where I'd place my proficiency with this stuff. Yet, I doubt there's a programmer in this world that would *actively* avoid making something for themself, especially something of somewhat real utility. So here I am.

I recently saw Zerodha's CTO, Kailash Nadh's website (nadh.in). I'd say that's where 90% of the inspiration of this blog came for. The remaining 5% comes from the thought that by if any chance I manage to keep this blog going for a few years, I'll have this candid yet selectively expressive catalogue of thoughts I decided to share, which would make for a cool relic of Raghav Thakar, for Raghav Thakar, a few years later. Nice thought.

## How I Got This Blog To Work And Why I'm Not Writing In Title Case from this point on

1. A markdown to HTML script ChatGPT generated for me conveneniently does what it's supposed to. I then paste the HTML onto a boilerplate file that sticks on all the styling I spent hours crafting to perfection (I made everything white and black and used a larger than normal serif font).

2. It's just not worth the speedbumps it forces my thoughts to experience.

## What I'm Doing In The Near Future And The Duality Of Man

I'll be joining the Robotics program at Oregon State University this fall (2023) as a PhD student!