# The Anatomy of this Blog

Being a complete newbie to building things for the web, I wanted a simple and foolproof way of being able to put up blog posts on my website without actually having to mess with JavaScript. I set out on this project with primarily one goal:

<div align="center"><i>As little webdev-y interactions as possible</i></div>

The result? A rather convenient way for me to write blog posts in markdown, and have a python script translate it to HTML, and then conveniently index it (according to date) and slap on the global style settings I have made for this site. Mission accomplished!

## Breakdown

`yyyy-mm-dd.md`:
Writing a blog post is probably the hardest part of running a blog (haha). I try to remove the friction in the process as much as possible. This is why I write my posts in markdown.

```blog_template.html```:
A boilerplate HTML file that all the blog posts share. A nav bar on the top that takes you back to all my blogs, a footer at the bottom supporting the [Made with ❤️ in India](https://madewithlove.org.in/) initiative, and *2 important div tags*:

- ```publish-date```: To insert the date at which I publish a blog post.
- ```blog-content```: To insert the actual content of a blog post.

```md_to_html.py```:
A python script that searches through a folder for all ```.md``` files, and makes sure the naming convention, contents, and structure is consistent with my blog. This means that each file must have the publish date as its filename, and its contents should all be supported withing markdown. If a file checks these boxes, the script conveniently fits its contents onto the boilerplate code, along with the publish date, and stores it as a new file.

```blogs_list_generate.py```:
A script that searches through all `.html` files in the blog posts folder performing similar checks as above, and generates a list of all blog posts and their filepaths. It then saves this list as a `.json` file.

```blog.html```:
I then read the list of files in the above-generated ```.json``` file in JavaScript, and add links to each post on ```blog.html```. I also read the title and publish date of each post, so that I can display them with the link to each post.

## Some More Thoughts

It is quite likely that my process is inefficient with lots of redundant or unnecesary steps. However, it makes it easy for me to write and pubish. In fact, this little blog-post-generation weekend project for this website gave me the inspiration to write this post. Very meta, but it clicks. And most importantly, I like it.

## Life Update

It has been exactly 1 month since I started my PhD at Oregon State University. I am starting to warm up to the city of Corvallis. I did a few interesting things this past month, like buying a bike, and going to a concert, which I think I will write about in a separate post (hopefully, haha).

## Some Irony

Right in the middle of my very candid expression of inexperience with webdev and general dislike for having to deal with it in this post, I had to write this absolute monstrosity in markdown to center-align and italicise my text:
```<div align="center"><i>As little webdev-y interactions as possible</i></div>```

Life has its ways of teaching lessons.

## Some More Irony

> "to center-align and italicise my text"
>> I'm free to use British and American spellings in the same sentence?
>>> Yes because I write what I please :)
