# The Paradox Of Luck

I am a very lucky individual. By most general measures, I lead a very priviliged life with no reason to really complain or be grossly dissatisfied. Any problem that I have faced or 'overcome' was always several levels below what I personally view as 'fundamental' problems. What I mean by that is that in my life, I never struggled for food, or water. I am young with a healthy body. I have had comfortable shelter all my life. Having grown up in a big city, I have never had to think twice about transportation. I am not expected to provide for anyone. You get the idea, there's many more examples I could give. These are priviliges of the circumstances I was born into, that take care of me to an extent that I do not consider 'survival' as a challenge, but something I can probably live many years without having to worry about. I call these privileges, 'fundamental privileges'.

In most social circles, people with 'fundamental privileges' are friends with other people with fundamental privileges. Often, for a fundamentally privileged person, it is hard to meet anyone without fundamental privileges in contexts where the two could befriend each other. There exists room for courtesy and respect, but generally not so much for honest, pure friendship.

Anyway, the point is that in my life, my closest friends are fundamentally privileged, and therefore we share a common plane on which most of our problems, aspirations, and lifestyles lie. This is interesting because among all possible levels of privilege (from abject poverty to perhaps a billionaire status), my friends and I share almost the same degree of privilege as an attainable goal. To us, a *successful person* looks almost the same. My theory is that a fundamentally privileged person, like any other person, looks *up* to a resonably attainable level or privilege. The difference is that any level of *advanced privilege* differs very little from any *other* level of advanced privilege. How so? Two levels of advanced privilege differ in intangibles (not the availability of something, but the ability to *acquire* something). Things, that one can simply chalk up to preference. "Do you not have X because you can't have it, or because you just don't care about it?". This *diminishing return* in the *perception* of privilege means that there are very few universal markers that clearly and unquestionably indicate upward privilege mobility. And so, at every privilege level, there exists a set of accomplishments, or *upward steps* that have a mutually agreeable *privilege impact*. One such example applies to many new engineering graduates in India. It is the ability/desire to consume slightly less accessible international foods (think sushi, or Korean Barbeque). The abiility to acquire such foods, or even knowing what these foods are, is an upward privilege step, and a unifier of that privilege level. Of course, this example is only valid as of the date I am writing this. It is likely that in a few years' time, there will come something new that will replace sushi, a new vacation destination that will replace Bali, and a new artist that will replace Anuv Jain (who himself replace Ritviz).

So now that I have established that in terms of privilege and fortune I am no different from the people I grew up with, then why is it that 
